NOTES ON COLOR PAIR HANDLING

   This is a description of the (slightly convoluted) methods used
for maintaining the color pair table in 'color.c'.  It is of interest
only if you are attempting to puzzle out some of the odder code in
that file.  If you're simply using the PDCursesMod library,  the
inner works are irrelevant to you.  You can safely treat color pair
management as a black box.

   In theory,  we can have up to 2^20 = 1048576 color pairs (if the
default 64-bit chtypes are used).  This is limited to 4096 pairs with
32-bit chtypes and narrow-character builds,  or 256 pairs with 32-bit
chtypes and wide-character builds.  ncurses,  PDCurses,  and other
curses implementations will support yet other numbers of pairs.

  In practice,  it's rare for a curses/PDCursesMod program to use
more than a few color pairs.  The 'mbrot',  'testcurs' and 'picsview'
demos provide somewhat contrived examples of the use of hundreds or
thousands of color pairs.

   The color pair table (SP->pairs) is dynamically reallocated to be
the power of two greater than or equal to the highest allocated index.
Allocate pair 37,  and it will be reallocated to have 64 entries,  plus
an extra 'dummy' entry.  (The color palette is similarly allocated
dynamically;  see 'pdccolor.c' in the 'common' directory.)  For almost
all programs,  this will result in only a small allocation.

   Complexities arose when the ncurses extensions alloc_pair( ),
find_pair( ),  and free_pair( )  were added.  If alloc_pair( ) is
called and we don't already have a pair allocated with that foreground
and background,  we need to find an available free pair.  If no pairs
are free (we have used all available color pairs),  the 'oldest' pair
allocated is used.

   At first,  this was done in a simple way.  Each color pair had a
'count' (basically an 'age') parameter.  We would find a pair by
scanning linearly through the color table.  If we didn't find one,
we'd scan linearly for an unused pair.  If that didn't work,  and the
color pair table was already at its maximum size,  we'd scan linearly
for the oldest pair and use that.  You could be looking at three
scans of a table of a million entries.

   The first improvement was to add a doubly-linked list of used
color pairs, and another one of unused ('free') color pairs.  Pair 0
is always used and is the head node for the 'used' list;  the dummy
entry at the end is always free and is the head node for the 'free'
list.  So we avoid the extra bookkeeping involved with empty lists.

   With this,  the dummy entry will point us to an available free node.
The linked list of 'used' color pairs will point us to the oldest used
pair.  So the scan for a free pair and the scan for the 'oldest' pair
are not needed.

HASH TABLE FOR FINDING PAIRS

   The remaining performance issue involves find_pair( ).  We need a
reasonably quick way,  given a foreground and background index,  to
locate a color pair that uses that foreground and background.  (Or to
recognize that no such pair is currently allocated.)  ncurses uses the
tsearch/tfind/tdelete family of functions for this purpose.  However,
this isn't necessarily available on Windows,  DOS,  and OS/2.  And it's
arguably overkill.  The only operations we need are "do we have this pair",
"add this pair",  and "free this pair".  We don't need to run through
pairs in order,  or any of the other things trees would let us do.  We
need good speed on average,  but not an upper bound per search.

   So PDCursesMod maintains a hash table for this purpose.  The
foreground and background indices are hashed using _hash_color_pair( ),
and we then probe the hash table looking for the color pair index (if
we're "freeing" that pair,  possibly for re-use);  or for an available
entry (if we're setting that pair);  or for any existing color pair that
uses that foreground and background (if we're in find_pair( )).

   Hash tables are seldom used if deletions are involved,  but they can
be (and are here).  The code uses a 'lazy deletion' scheme,

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lazy_deletion

   Deleted entries are set to a 'deleted' value,  which is _not_ the
same as saying they are 'free'.  When searching for a value,  you only
stop when running into an actually 'free' slot. In adding a value to
the table,  a 'deleted' slot can be used.

   Changing a color pair that's already been allocated therefore involves
deleting the old pair and then allocating the new pair.  After enough
of this,  your table will have a mix of allocated,  'deleted',  and
'free' slots.  When less than 20% or 25% of slots are 'free',  performance
will start to drop a bit and the table is rebuilt,  at a doubled size if
necessary,  and getting rid of the 'deleted' entries in the process.

   Hash table collisions are handled by probing for an available entry
using a hybrid linear/triangular numbers scheme.  This provides good
performance and ensures that if a free entry is available,  it'll get
found.  See https://www.projectpluto.com/hashing.htm for details.
